{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2513
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 CentaurMT-Italic;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww17700\viewh16020\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-1440\sl288\slmult1\partightenfactor0

\f0\i\fs72 \cf0 It\'92s Ryan.\
...\
Laughter\
...\
Wait what does that mean, exactly?\
...\
So, how would that become a music composition? Can you tell me one more time I don\'92t get it.\
...\
Yeah, yeah.\
...\
Got it.\
...\
That\'92s cool.\
...\
Laughter\
...\
Laughter\
...\
It looks like a figure.\
...\
Like a figure.\
...\
Yeah it does.\
...\
Is it playing?\
...\
I keep telling you this, but, you can always just convert the images to raw bytes, and the raw bytes into sound, and see what it sounds like.\
...\
Yeah. Just a thought. And also: metronomes.\
...\
Oh, metronomes are so fascinating, yeah.\
...\
It seems like it\'92s sort of funny. I can\'92t really figure out, like, how you pick something, it\'92s almost like, and I can\'92t tell if you\'92re working with systems or logics or languages, you know, maybe they\'92re entangled together or something, because it\'92s almost like you can take any piece of text or configuration or shape or something, and then apply or find some sort of logic, or like, making a move, or like taking it apart or something. It\'92s just, it\'92s sort of un\'97I\'92m trying to like, is it just, random, what you\'92re doing, like the piano book? Like, you know, you know I\'92m just wondering where does the attraction sort of start with you to work with something, you know? I mean, you don\'92t have to answer that\'97\
...\
Right, right. I mean, maybe it\'92s great if you don\'92t.\
...\
I really love the fact that you\'92re adapting your music teacher\'92s book. I think that there\'92s something, it\'92s such a beautiful project, and I just love the way that you\'92re giving meaning to every passage that was written, and like, I just like that you\'92ve got a relationship and you\'92re kind of slidifying it in a graphic kind of way. I feel like that work\'92s really strong. Like, all of the work is really strong, but. I also wish I could have sat here and read that book for the whole time, because I\'92m so nosy, and\'97\
...\
It\'92s such a fascinating,					    book though, right?\
...\
Oh sorry, it\'92s just kind of like, the comments are just sort of interesting because it\'92s like, \'93Shosta\'94\'97\'93Shostakovich: good!; another one: bad!\'94 It\'92s like really fascinating, right? Sorry, I had to cut in because I agree with you.\
...\
No, no, go for it.\
...\
Laughter.\
...\
What\'92s the time-checking list?\
...\
I feel like you could just write a piece out of this book, because there are so many um, notes on um, like, your technique, in terms of like, staccato versus slide down, versus like, the dynamics, and then there are actual notes in here as well, in particular like, there is an e flat, b flat, and then there\'92s tempo in the dates, as well. I feel like this itself is\'97\
...\
\'97yeah, um. The dates themselves are tempos. and then are are like, important events, like the tests, or the recitals, I don\'92t know. Those are like, high parts of a score. I don\'92t know. I think it seems very natural to me to just make a composition out of this.\
...\
Why do you choose black and white?\
...\
I have a question, just looking at these right now. Have you thought about shining light through them, and projecting them?\
...\
It reminds me, and especially because we were reading through the old notebook\'97it reminded me of kids in school. I don\'92t know if, when I was in school, they would have these as like, slides that you would put into the projector, and then they would light them up?\
...\
Yeah.\
...\
It kind of reminds me of that, but like, yeah, I don\'92t know.\
...\
I think how you\'92ve turned all of these into some type of video, or like, moving image, also helped to kind of unconstrain them, and I think in terms of finding a way to actually present these in an exhibition, the videos look like a really good direction.\
...\
I also just love the term time fields, like, it feels like a \'93force field,\'94 or like, a portal to walk into, or like, I don\'92t know, kind of just like, time machine. I don\'92t know, so maybe thinking about taking out that kind of imagery may be interesting.\
...\
I guess I have two questions, but, in your um, piano teacher\'92s notebook, there was a point where the handwriting changed, I was wondering if you knew, why?\
...\
Laughter.\
...\
Whoa, that\'92s so great.\
...\
Whoa.\
...\
It\'92s like a dance floor made out of time\
...\
I love the self-binding.\
...\
I\'92m of course, sort of like, interested in like, how color will, I mean, whether you\'92re going to let it seep in, or whether you\'92re going to find some way to let it just stay escaping color, because you know, color of course is another language, and again, like, are you going to work with that with like a system, or like, I guess there is an intuition that\'92s sort of involved, and maybe that\'92s how you choose. Like, maybe it\'92s just like, intuitive, you know. Maybe there\'92s something in just, you know, allowing yourself, whatever that might be, that pleasure.\
...\
I think that\'92s really up to you. I think that the more legible you make it, the more easy it is to tell what it is right away, and the less time people will spend on it. And if you really want them to spend at least a good half hour at your show, or you want them to just take a break and fully process it, then I think that maybe like, maybe being a bit more vague would be better.\
...\
I think you need to kind of give people enough to keep looking, because, if they are met with something that they just don\'92t understand, they won\'92t take, or, I feel like\'97and I\'94m a skeptic\'97I feel like people won\'92t take the time to try and understand it. I think like, signifiers are important.\
...\
I agree with that, but, I think that like, I think Tobi\'92s point, and also the sweet spot of time which is like, indicating that you want the viewer to put in the same amount of time and care as your teacher did, especially with that work, but still having it accessible to people who can understand it if they want to, if that makes sense.\
...\
I think, to some degree it varies though, because I really like this kind of like, like narrative you\'92ve got going on with codes and codification of information. If you look at music notation, just as a like a code, and this year-long calendar as another code, like, you asked us if we could figure it out, and I think that spot will range differently for different individuals. So I think there is some play that you have there, and I don\'92t think you have to dumb anything down, or necessarily make anything explicitly legible.\
...\
Also I feel like if you don\'92t make legibility your focus, and it\'92s just a natural side effect of your focus\'97like, I feel like since you\'92re working with time, time is very much a feeling, and less so something that is legible or textual. If you\'92re focusing on the feeling that you\'92re creating and giving people, the legibility should naturally come, from time.\
...\
You know, I think it\'92s interesting like, seeking out the softness, out of those notes, and I almost want to seek out the softness out of this thing, too. But you do need to go into it to find it, because it looks very harsh from the outside, like, it looks like a calendar, you know. And those things are usually not that, soft, very objective, um, yeah. So maybe that\'92s the best way to do it\'97to like, bring out the extremes.\
...\
You\'92re such a good student. All these A-pluses. \
...\
Laughter.\
...\
I\'92ve only seen, like, two A\'92s, and I\'92m almost finished. And all these hearts? Oh my god.\
...\
I guess I just feel like you should just focus on the work that you want to make. You know, it\'92s sort of that simple. And, you know, this a chance to do that, you know. You\'92re going to be surrounded by some people who don\'92t know or are like whatever, but I don\'92t know. It\'92s a different project to make something legible. It\'92s just a completely different project.\
...\
Well, it will come.\
...\
Right.\
...\
Right, I mean. Well, uhhg. I mean\'97allow yourself to be confused. That\'92s the nature of what artists do. I understand that like, the way forward is simpler if there\'92s some sort of like, clarity, you know, but clarity can come from a different form, you know. Like from another text that you read, or from something somebody says to you, or a poem, or\'97you know, it doesn\'92t have to be like \'93my work is about bla bla bla,\'94 you know? But, I don\'92t know, everybody will have a different opinion about that, you know. But I think that you will start to understand the work as you go.\
...\
You can write about it too. That\'92s helpful sometimes. I don\'92t know. Brandon, do you have ideas about that?\
...\
About.. About what?\
...\
About like, uh, you know, about like, understanding your work. You know, the struggle to kind of go forward when you don\'92t really completely know what you\'92re doing? Sorry, that wasn\'92t completely your words that you used, but\
...\
Um, I mean, I\'92m really stubborn so I just kind of go. I just keep going, I think. But, I think, you do and you don\'92t\'97is that what you\'97like, what do you do when you don\'92t know what you\'92re doing?\
...\
No, just like your thoughts on it. Like I\'92m like, I\'92m like you\'97I\'92m not afraid to get lost in the work, but you know, everybody has to find their own position in that, you know?\
...\
Yeah, yeah. Oh, ok. Um, I think I can hit\'97I think one universal thing is that no one can fully bring you to your work, like no matter how many visits and stuff like that, because no one\'92s really ruminating as long as you are about your own work, and then I think two\'97this issue I think about legibility\'97um, I don\'92t know. I always just assumed that like, if people, yeah, like everybody else\'92s comments. Like if people look long enough, they\'92ll kind of arrive even at the same confusion that you are. They\'92ll kind of meet you at the junction. I guess to say, like, that\'92s kind of the nature of what we are doing, anyway, is sort of like, making this alphabet soup of like, miscommunications, and dreams, and memories. We\'92re all kind of piecing it together all the time, with visual language, which its own\'97I also always assume that a big chunk of the population just doesn\'92t really speak that language and that\'92s fine. But yeah, I think that the more mutations and permutations that happen in the studio, it\'92s so funny. Like, you can look back at your work now, and like, five years from now, you\'92ll still see the project and be like, oh, I definitely didn\'92t know what I was doing then, but it like, follows you. So that\'92s that keeping going thing, is like when stuff doesn\'92t make sense, it\'92s good to keep one or two mementos, or like notes, or just like stuff from the time when you didn\'92t know what you were doing, because it will look different\
but intrinsically you\'92ll know where you started and arrived with that. And yeah, I just like, the nature of just making art\'97legibility is never 100% certain. Like, people can read a phrase and think of a multitude of different associations and meanings to a viewer, so yeah. I don\'92t know. I try to like, I don\'92t know. It\'92s also just like the perfect time to be selfish, when making art, because I just assume that no one else is really looking at it, except me. Um, so, yeah. I don\'92t know. It\'92s like, we can have that book with you, but there\'92s a disconnect when it\'92s not your stuff. And you\'92re not like, giving a lecture, you know, so it\'92s a little different what the expectation is of what is to come afterwards, you know what I mean? So like, yeah. It sorts itself out\'97or it doesn\'92t, and then you know to pivot, or what to add or what to subtract, but, yeah. I don\'92t know.\
...\
I know, you said everything.\
...\
Laughter.\
...\
I think that\'92s our night.}